everyone lhasa montgomery here coming to
you from the china history podcast.com
we begin this new year 2012 year the
dragon well starting January 23rd that
is with part 8 of our dumb shellping
overview I guess this 8 part series was
a good way to sort of get a chance to
revisit different periods of Chinese
history through the context of dong Zhou
Qing's life we touched on a lot of new
things that hadn't been covered before
and I keep mentioning we're gonna circle
back another day and focus in on some of
the things we just skimmed over like Shi
Chong shootin from the last episode he
deserves a whole podcast and we'll cover
him another day as I mentioned he's the
father of Xi Jinping who barring
anything unforeseen like the end of the
world is slated to be named the new
president of China and party secretary
he's also a vice chairman of the CMC the
Central Military Commission and it's no
secret he's going to get that top spot
too so we covered a lot these past seven
weeks and there's plenty to come back to
another day so let's finish off this
dung Xiao ping overview and we're
picking up today after dung hit a series
of rough patches in 1980 1889 inflation
hit the country hard and then there was
the June fourth incident and this put a
huge damper not only on China's image
worldwide but also caused a huge rift
between the government and the esteem
the people felt for it now these weren't
good days for dung after plotting
forward for a decade dodging bullets and
genuine ghost loaf action always pushing
back from the other direction Dung's
reforms were really having a very big
impact wherever they were put in effect
Guangdong and Fujian provinces were the
first major beneficiaries of the reforms
but by the 1990s the whole country was
catching the bug once China's economy
hit the skids
this gave Chen and his faction carte
blanche to put in a whole wave of
measures that really put a damper on the
reforms Chung gets credit though and
putting his
policies in place for dealing with the
wretched inflation problem that hit
everyone hard
following the Tiananmen June 4th
incident dung knew he was going to have
to take his lumps with all the
international elites in the West
everyone in the West let China have it
they were sanctions speeches you name it
it was a politician's dream and wherever
there was a grandstand to go preach on
leaders and politicians around the world
expressed outrage about the events that
had happened but Dunn knew this would
pass it sure enough 17 months after the
tanks rolled into Tiananmen the u.s.
needed China's vote for the first
Persian Gulf War and after Chen XI Chen
helped us out at the UN things very soon
after went right back to where they had
left off nonetheless
10-on men was really a sideshow to the
main problem of inflation and hard times
in China caused by the imprudent lifting
of Christ controls it was right after
the June fourth incident that Doong told
his fellow party leaders that he was
stepping aside and clearing the decks
for the next generation of leaders the
third generation of which we know Jiang
sameen's served as the core of this
generation at the fourth plenum of the
13th Party Congress June 23rd 24th 1989
all the leaders including dung got an
attaboy and a pat on the back for
quelling the student protests that
culminated in the June fourth incident
Jiang was officially made party
secretary the transition of power from
dung to Jeong from the second generation
to the third was now in progress and
later in August of that year 1989 dung
met with his old allies yunxiang kun and
Wong Jun and told them that at the next
plenum he was gonna pass the CMC
position to Jung as well and with that
he would be totally removed from
government and at the fifth plenum in
November that's indeed what happened
now don't didn't give everything up he
kept his title as honorary chairman of
China's bridge Association dong loved
that game
Ezra Vogel says that on September 4th
dung called all the main leaders to his
house and their dung let everyone know
his retirement plans there he told the
assembled heavyweights of the time John
sameen leepung cho shiryuu lien song
ping Lee ray Kwon Yong Cheng kun and Wan
Li all the stars of the 80's and 90's to
keep opening up stay committed to reform
keep the party strong and in control at
all costs and last but not least he said
let's ditch the central Advisory
Commission you see the way done thought
if he was retiring all those other guys
that genuinely toons of the party
hardliners they had to go to and since
their little club for these
conservatives who always had their foot
on the brake when dung was trying to
drive the country forward was called the
central Advisory Commission the Chong
Yang who went way you and clay remember
it it got set up in 1982 after genuine
zijn systems at the 12th CPPCC Chinese
People's Political Consultative
Conference this was the check to balance
Dung's unfettered drive towards reform
and economic development of course the
whole opening up thing the two top guys
were dung and genuine and the other
members this most elite of clubs in
China were the so-called Eight Immortals
of the party these were pangaean
yunxiang khun boy ye boi Li xiannian
Hwang Jung and some rent young so dung
said I'm going and you're all coming
with me and that was that at the next
Party Congress in 1992 they were all
retired and this Commission was done
away with dung had sent a letter to the
Politburo sort of a an official farewell
message in it he said and I quote from
Vogel's book the core leadership headed
by comrade Jiang Zemin has been working
very efficiently after careful
consideration I should like to resign my
current posts while I am still in good
health this will be good for the party
the state and the army since I am an old
citizen and of
and party member who is worked for
decades for the Communist cause and for
the independence reunification
development and reform of the country my
life belongs to the party and the
country after my retirement I shall
continue to be devoted to the cause as
the reform and opening-up to the outside
world have only just begun our task is
arduous and our road will be long and
tortuous but I am certain we shall be
able to surmount all difficulties and
that one generation after another will
advance the cause pioneered by the first
generation the world found out about
dung this official retirement when
American Nobel laureate TD Lee Lee
chang-dong visited done even though
Dunne was retired he still selectively
saw some visiting foreign VIPs
dignitaries
despite being shunned at first by
various foreign nations dung still kept
a brave and friendly face on when he met
with you know whatever bigshot or
somebody who was in town TD Lee was a
great American of Chinese descent who
won the Nobel Prize for Physics when he
was 30 years old the youngest American
ever to receive the coveted honor so
when dr. Lee met with dung the beans
were spilled about his stepping down it
was pretty big international news and so
at the fifth plenum on November 7th the
CMC chairmanship was passed to Jung's
amine and this symbolically marked dongs
formal stepping down from government and
party service dung bid everyone farewell
and as he waved to the assembled leaders
and members on that day it was just
barely shy of seven decades since he had
landed in France right after the may 4th
movement when everything was just a
dream so done he went out in style and
although he had his detractors no one
who stood and applauded for him could
deny him the respect and admiration he
was due the next day he posed for
pictures with everyone who got to come
and shake the great man's hand and then
the next day the Berlin Wall fell well
us-china relations were really not in a
good place you know all because
June 4th but dumb used his old
relationships with George Bush 41 Brent
Scowcroft and dr. Kissinger of course to
keep that door open and little by little
by 1993-94 things of course also due to
the tireless work of Chan chichn began
to thaw I had just moved to Hong Kong
three months after Tiananmen mood was
totally sour but the outfit I worked for
is a huge cutting sole manufacturer
where we were always getting rag down in
the faxes from customers who you know
gave us their two cents about this of
that and it was not well-received at all
in China when in 1990 thanks to Western
influence
China's hopes to host the 2011 were
torpedoed but of course they got the
2008 Beijing Olympics but things were
normal but there was always this gray
cloud hanging over southern China during
those years 1989 1991
I remember by 1994 though when the World
Cup was held in the US it was pretty
much business as usual I was traveling
all over China selling World Cup bags
and merchandise made by my factory and
it was as if the past five years it
never happened but if you recall 1988 89
90 not good years for communism and the
established order in the Eastern Bloc
nations had been smashed and was in the
process of reinventing itself all this
dovetailed wonderfully with what was
going on in China
no one could point a finger at China hey
the doors were wide open there all kinds
of changes were going on in the Foreign
Press always loved to print stories
about how that people were lifting
themselves out of poverty thanks to all
the reforms and of course the opening up
aspect the the documentaries and movies
and TV specials you name it they took
full advantage of the opening up of
China people in the u.s. just ate this
up nonetheless in the face of this
meltdown in the Communist world
especially in the soon-to-be former
Soviet Union things were getting
dicey at the topmost layer of leadership
in China August 20th 1991
dung meets with Jiang Zemin leepung and
others at the top and urges them to
stick together don't back down or
succumb to pressure he in so many words
said we're safe from all this because we
already opened up and everyone can see
despite the economic slowdown what's
going on here we're moving in the right
direction so they can't say Jack in
China embraced the changes going on in
the world
recognizing the three Baltic republics
after they broke away from the Soviet
Union and Russia of course as soon as
the new Russian state was announced
China was right there with recognition
and congratulations dung new China was
in danger of getting run over by this
truck that was rolling all over Eastern
Europe and Russia he firmly believed if
the Communist Party was gonna dodge this
bullet the Chinese economy was gonna
have to be opened up faster and more
risks taken this dong knew would sort of
inoculate China against the worst of the
foreign finger pointer would at the same
time offer a heck of a lot of new
incentives to common people who wanted
to take advantage of some of the things
that offered all kinds of economic
benefits to themselves and their
families so done needed a speed up
growth he knew this was the only way to
bounce back from all the economic bad
news since 1988 and then exacerbated by
the sanctions and flight of Western
investment right after June 4th 1989
Dunn believed if China continued to
stand still it would mean the end of the
party and who knows what might happen in
China with no one at the helm but there
was only one problem no one not even
jung-soo mean would side with dung the
prevailing attitude in the Politburo at
least was don't do anything rash keep it
slow steady and continue to wait things
out before taking out a new wave careful
reforms done felt they did this just sit
around and wait it would in time present
a whole ghastly political problem to the
CCP and the people might just rise up
and throw them out so he had to take
matters into his own hands
couldn't his fellow leaders at the top
see what happened in Russia Poland and
Romania with Ceausescu and elsewhere a
Chinese economy that was firing on all
eight cylinders would take everyone's
attention off the bad stuff
Chairman Mao back in 1965 when he
couldn't get any respect and when he saw
the country in his eyes anyways going
down the tubes he sidestepped the
government went down to Wuhan and took
that famous swim across the young so
that symbolically showed the Chinese
people that he was back done shopping
did the same thing in 1992 unable to
reason with China and central planners
he did the equivalent of Mao's swim but
dung instead took a family vacation and
whatever you see today as far as China
at its best and its most modern most
spectacular whatever you see in Shanghai
and pooped on that all came about from
this little dumb family vacation it
seemed like such an innocent and
innocuous thing but it was anything but
that cloaking this trip like he did and
hiding behind this facade of a family
getaway to Wuhan Shan Chen zhuhai and
Shanghai turned out to be one of the
most brilliant political moves even
Jukka liang salts Howe and Switzer
himself would have admired dongs secret
plan by the end of 1991 the push and
pull between dung and chun-yin had
become too great no matter what was said
that called for faster reform chang-geun
and his proxies would automatically call
for the opposite these were the days
where there were constant warnings and
buzz in the air about spiritual
pollution and peaceful evolution you
know all of which meant nothing except
bad news for the CCP so as I said dung
couldn't get anywhere he was 87 years
old and running
out of time his health was starting to
fail he was running out of breath it was
Now or Never
so dong and his whole extended family of
17 except the youngest son dunker Fong
who I had the pleasure of meeting back
in 1995 they all piled into a special
train and on January 17th Benjamin
Franklin's birthday 1992 dung left
Beijing no one in the leadership knew at
first dong arrived at the first stop on
the very next day this was the great
revolutionary city of Wuhan in Hebei
province and if no one paid much heed to
dung this family vacation when the Wuhan
party Shuji or secretary met dung at the
train station dung didn't mince words
and he said whoever is against reform
must leave office now he didn't say this
in any official capacity nor were there
any TV cameras rolling but Jung Zameen
did find out quickly that dung had
skipped town and was on his way south
with his wife kids spouses and
grandchildren and no doubt Jeong sameen
made sure that whatever dung uttered to
anyone be reported back to him verbatim
so when Jung heard such a provocative
statement as that dung had his attention
you see Jung was a dung man but he was
also a cautious man he sort of sat on
the fence and didn't side with done but
also didn't side against him but after
he heard what dung said in wuhan two
days later he put on his cheerleaders
uniform and was out there saying we
should move faster and open up more and
pick up the pace of reform next stop on
the tour was cheung sha where dung gave
the same message stop sitting around
speed up the economic development of
cheung sha next stop was the big one the
main event I can remember it like it was
yesterday
January 19th morning dung arrives in
Guangzhou and he's met by the top brass
down there including chef a the Shuji or
party secretary of Guangdong and Zhang
Zhang's party secretary Lee Hall
he goes down there and starts an 11-day
whirlwind inspection tour of Shenzhen
and Zhuhai EFT and it to all these
officials down in Guangdong they had
scant time to prepare for this visit no
one knew what to make of some dung
family vacation but all the sudden when
word got out about what dumb was calling
for in Wuhan in Changsha they knew what
the deal was and this was a serious
visit disguised as a family vacation in
fact by now everyone knew this whole
family vacation thing was a sham and
that done was making an end run around
genuine and the Conservatives if no one
in the government had the guts to do
what had to be done
dung shopping soon pushing 90 years old
was gonna have to fight one last fight
before passing from this world one thing
to recall dunk had made a similar trip
to the South back in 1984 where he
proclaimed the initial success of the
SES and that this whole crazy idea was
the correct one and most of the same
guys were still around
and they saw how dung had been the
savior - Guangdong province and had made
it the envy of all China and these
fellows had been laying low chomping at
the bit and all those entrepreneurial
hormones running wild down there but
since 1988 Dunn's reform policies were
scaled back and all the things that used
to be okay
now weren't okay so once these officials
down in Guangdong saw what thumb was up
to they embraced this with gusto and
together they all went down to shun John
to go check out the scene firsthand they
had nothing to hide
sure some of the negative influences
were negative from their point of view
had wafted into southern China from
across the border in Hong Kong you see
back then in those pre broadband days
late 80s early 90s this was all pre
internet when Tong made his grand
southern tour in 1992 you didn't even
have dial-up I mean we were still barely
in a 2856 KB world no internet yet to
despoil the sensibilities of all Chinese
but there was one thing
one thing that couldn't be stopped that
was called a TV and TVB new member TVB
television broadcast limited that was
the company formerly owned by sir run
run Shaw who we featured in China
history podcast episode 49 these were
Hong Kong's two television stations now
TVB Jade and a TV home this is where all
the action was on Hong Kong TV
foreigners listen to the English
stations TVB pearl and a TV world but
given the Chinese to laowai ratio in the
Pearl River Delta region all the action
was with the two competing Chinese
stations Jade and home most all the
programming was in Cantonese but ain't
no big deal everyone just across the
border spoke the same dialect you can
put borders and fences in place all you
want but television signals know no
boundaries and for as long as there were
TVs with rabbit ear antennas the
southernmost Chinese have been picking
up Hong Kong TV for years most of us may
take TV for granted having grown up with
it as an integral part of our lives how
we've received news and entertainment
well this was not a common thing in
China in 1992 but those who had access
to televisions first were the Cantonese
they were way more savvy than their
northern brothers and sisters they got
to hear the Hong Kong version of events
and they got to enjoy this very very
handy window to the outside world see
late 1980s China was wide open of course
but it hadn't reached the point you know
where common folk and young'ns were
practically chartering whole 747s to go
on these vacations all over the world
China wasn't at that stage yet this was
all along or so the top leaders in
Beijing thought supposed to be a low-key
trip according to the rules dung had to
obey certain protocols about you know
who he saw and what he said but here he
was dumb shell ping the most famous and
powerful guy in China albeit retired
down in the south it took only a few
days for word to leak out
the border into Hong Kong and then
before you knew it there was a massive
flood of reporters making their way from
Hong Kong Shenyang and the news cycle in
Hong Kong was non-stop Tong Xiao ping
and if you had more than a few brain
cells it didn't take long to learn this
was not a family vacation but a
political maneuver by dung to fight back
against the conservative anti reform and
anti opening-up faction and push start
the whole Chinese economy it was a news
sensation it was reported in Hong Kong
first and then the TV signals were
received loud and clear from TVB and a
TV across the border into southern China
and from there it's spread like wildfire
none of China's leaders in Beijing had
thought about this possibility everyone
up in Beijing were no doubt pacing the
halls and their villas and jungin high
wondering how to respond to this and
what this might mean to them thumb Xiao
Peng was 87 when he and his family took
in the sights of Guangdong when these
officials guided him through all the
great things that had happened so far in
Shenyang and they kept saying the same
thing you know if we could just be
allowed to do this and do that again you
know like before you know and it was
like preaching to the choir Don was able
to take in the situation there and see
for himself that these guys were being
held back and some of this regulation
and prohibition had to be scaled back
and gotten rid of entirely so every
morning done got up and you know hung
out with these guys for about three
hours he was taken to various places
where he either toured factories or took
in the sights with his family then he'd
head back to his guesthouse where you
know the family was staying and take a
nice afternoon nap and relax I can't
imagine what it must have been like for
all these guys down in Guangdong who
were orchestrating this whole opera
everything done said was you know go go
go don't slow down you're doing great do
better take more risks correct mistakes
move on he even said Shenzhen should try
to catch up economically with the four
dragons of Asia Hong Kong Singapore
Taiwan
South Korea in 20 years and of course
these guangdong officials are looking
north to Beijing and saying like you
know well you know what do you got to
say about that
after five days of pounding the same
drum beat dung headed to the other sec
of zhuhai which bordered the still
portuguese enclave of Macau where party
secretary leon quanta was ready and
waiting to have his turn with the great
man the same message repeated every day
in Shenzhen was repeated in July dung
went through the same drill witnessing
all the greatest hits of shun John and
Jill hide tallest buildings model
factories mingling with alibi Shing it
was a public relations coup it was
during this zhuhai stop along the
southern tour that dung reiterated again
the same provocative statements he had
made in Wuhan whoever wasn't on the side
of reform should leave the government
and then to really put junk sameen's
feet to the fire
daang had a little meeting with some
major heavyweights in the army namely
his close friends the young brothers
young Shanklin and young by bing as well
as the military giant Julio watching
these were three sacred cows and the
Chinese military and they all met with
dung to discuss ostensibly military
planning what else but the interesting
thing was that this meeting in Zhuhai
was chaired by an interesting guy from
Shanghai named kosher kosher was the top
guy in China in charge of domestic
security matters that means the Gong on
was under his big umbrella the going on
that was the PSB Public Security Bureau
well sure he was a Standing Committee
member which made him one of the most
powerful guys in all of China and if
there was anyone anyone at all on the
Standing Committee who might possibly
pose any kind of political threat to
Jung's I mean it was this guy and
everyone at this meeting the top
military guys Chows sure Don of course
they were all in lockstep about the need
to speed up reform otherwise China would
never shake loose of this economic
stagnation that have been keeping China
down for four years already
well if president jeong's amin wasn't
feeling totally secure in his job about
now that was understandable when done
finished making his point in Zhuhai the
next step was the provincial capital and
historic city of Guangzhou then
afterwards the dung traveling circus
went to Shanghai but dung stopped
briefly in Ying dong a city that had
once played a role in tongues personal
history as you recall from the dong Xiao
ping podcast episode number 4 dung had
been sent down to Jiang Shi to cool his
heels and exercise his humility during
some of the most heated years the
Cultural Revolution it was surely
touching for dung to be back there
eating tun is a little south and east of
nan Chung in gem she province it was in
the early 30s that dung also served the
CCP cause a Jiang Shi well next stop as
I said was Shanghai Shanghai is the New
York City of China the potential there
as far as the industriousness and
resourcefulness of the people was of
course legendary going back to the
earliest days before the Tang Dynasty
these Jiang nan people the people south
of the Great River chang-jung or Yangtze
River but the Shanghainese included in
that group of course they had been
paying for all these historical
embarrassments that characterized the
bad old days of Shanghai that followed
the fall of the Qin Dynasty the CCP had
been extremely weary and mistrustful of
the Shanghainese and when it came time
for opening up to the outside world
launching these reforms and se zis
Shanghai was purposely left out of the
party dung had been pushing for the
development of Shanghai since early 1990
he knew nothing except great things
could come from developing Shanghai and
turning all that pent-up energy there
into economic achievements
naturally no one on the conservative
side was too eager to expand the reforms
but Johnson mean and his replacement
down in Shanghai drew raunchy both of
those guys one from Jiangsu and one from
Hunan had made their mark in the party
in Shanghai and if Dunn wanted to do in
Shanghai what had already been
experimented with in Guangdong and
Fujian well they were all for well now
their chance was coming and now Dunn was
coming to town there were some very high
hopes that someone was finally going to
shake loosen get these manacles off
Shanghai business and economic
development and that Shanghai would soon
get the same benefits enjoyed by their
southern cousins and Shenzhen shantou
shaman and juha but before Shanghai had
any chance of getting some badly needed
preferential treatment and special
government backing these cautious types
in the government who wouldn't let their
hands off the brake they had to let up
someone had to push these guys aside
first before Shanghai had the slightest
prayer of enjoying what their son John
Cousins got to enjoy so on February 3rd
1992 after junks limine called dong Xiao
ping to wish him a happy new year that
suddenly Jung saw the light you know
what he suddenly came down off his fence
and said this reform thing is good and
we should continue it it done remained
in Shanghai for a few weeks and it was
there where he sort of took stock of
everything that had happened over the
past you know period during the southern
tour and he did in Shanghai what he did
in Shenzhen and Zhuhai
he took him to sites and got the lay of
the land what was going down in Shanghai
what kind of miracles might happen if
they were given some special treatment
done promised to fight for them which he
did Dunn said although Shanghai had
started late they would reap all the
benefits of all the lessons learned from
all the mistakes that were made along
the way down in Guangdong February 21st
1992 dung returned to Beijing the
groundswell of support coming not only
out of Guangdong and Shanghai but
elsewhere as well it was simply too
great
for Jung zooming he had received dung
shell pings message loud and clear and
had decided to hop on the bus rather
than get run over and the Conservatives
they tried to do what they could to play
this down there was too much buzz in the
air too much excitement too little
support for the old ideas all kinds of
measures were being taken to suppress
the news about this trip but it was
impossible too much had already gotten
out and it spread to far and wide and
the mood on the street was almost
universally in support for what dung was
calling for so going against this tide
was suicidal and that I guess was the
whole purpose for this trip in the first
place by March of that year everybody
was on board in the excitement not only
in China but in Hong Kong as well I can
remember it clearly after all these
years of being stuck in a rut and after
the reverberations of June 4th quieted
down the country was ready and everybody
climbed on board and well you know what
you see today all over China that's what
ended up happening as a result and
jeong's Amin and the months that
followed he really became a chief
cheerleader calling for bolder and
faster reforms and in July after giving
a eulogy for Li xiannian who had just
passed away even chun-yin himself had
come out and gave his wholehearted
support for Dung's policies and said
times had changed and these new times
required new thinking and even he was
lined up with dung and the Reformers
well there wasn't much else to do after
this all that was left was the 14th
Party Congress that was held October 12
to 18 1992 dung didn't attend and
therefore wasn't present to see
everything he fought for turned into
official policy and to hear all the
leaders sing his praises gentle Amin was
totally lined up behind dung on this and
whatever jens Amin said the rest of the
party had to walk that walk and talk the
talk and so it was on the final day of
the Congress when all was winding down
dumb-show
paying dramatically appeared onstage and
together he stood side by side with
junks Lamine for an extended period of
time while all the gathered official
photographers took advantage of this
great photo-op and the signal was Claire
Dunphy with Jung and the torch was now
officially passed and one other thing
Dunc picked a young 50 year old guy to
join Jung sameen in the Standing
Committee this man was who Jean Tom and
even as far back as 1992 the signal was
that who Jean Paul would be groomed to
be the heir apparent to Jung so dumb not
only picked his successor but his
successors successor too
and you know something wasn't perfect
but China has had two very decent
decades since then so China can't thank
done for doing everything but he
definitely gets most of the credit
Chinese New Year 1994 dung made his last
public appearance he was never seen
again after that he suffered from
Parkinson's and other ailments common to
most 90 year olds that was it
no one except his family ever saw him
again dong Xiao ping also died just
after midnight at February 19 1997 a
good four and a half months before the
handover of Hong Kong in 21 years after
the death of his one-time mentor and
tormentor Mao Zedong what is there to
say except there was a great outpouring
of grief
Jung's lamine could hardly contain
himself when he gave the eulogy for dung
the accolades from around the world came
in fast furious 10:00 a.m. on February
24th the whole country held a three
minute period of silence in honor of
their fallen leader it was no surprise
when Thumb Xiao ping passed away coming
everyone knew he was ill and no one had
seen or heard a peep since that day in
1994 did hear something every now and
then from his daughter dung nan but not
too much so when he finally went quietly
no one could say they didn't see it
coming
his last wishes dung donated all his
vital organs to science was cremated in
a simple ceremony and his ashes were
scattered over the sea as far as his
legacy goes you could get on a plane and
fly to China and see for yourself you
didn't do too bad a job he did what
every leader since the time of the Ching
dynasty dal Quang Emperor tried to do
but couldn't the Shen Fung puncture
gwangsu Emperor's couldn't do it all the
tragic and failed attempts to modernize
all the disrespect heaped on China no
one not Sun yat-sen Jung kai-shek no one
had been successful in doing what them
shellping did he's the guy who lifted
China up made it a wealthy nation and
showed the world that this nation China
and its people were not to be taken
lightly and never to be taken advantage
of again it was done Xiao Peng who
served as the grave digger responsible
for burying all those ghosts of the late
18-hundreds early 1900s dong shoppings
life was truly a great story of lifelong
service to China well took us eight
parts but finally we got through Azra
vocals biography of dong Xiao ping the
last chapter of the book sort of
summarizes how dung transformed China I
was gonna sort of review his whole life
before we signed off but who knows how
much longer that's gonna take to tie it
all together so let's just stop right
here and again I urge all of you if you
can get your hands on that book or
audiobook twelve worth it I've only been
skimming the surface there are so many
more fascinating details and tongues
life well I hope y'all's enjoyed that
we'll do the same thing another day for
Mao Joanne lie yo sha Chi and other
leaders I think next time will maybe
jump backwards in time and look at
something a little older let me think
about that well signing off from sunny
Claremont California this is Laszlo
Montgomery wishing you all the best
Hey again this is
the last episode that I will upload to
the old and new website starting with
the next episode I'm only gonna be
updating the new website which means you
have to make sure to subscribe to the
new feed and I apologize once again for
making y'all do that when I get asked to
do that I don't like it either sort of
messes up my podcast listing in my
iTunes anyways the new feed has
everything and everything so subscribe
to that one and ditch the old one and
once again I'm filled with nothing
except the highest of hopes that I'll
see you again next time for another
exciting episode of the China history
podcast